README.md, before:

# AI weather and climate Workshop

This repository contains the materials and notebooks for the **AI in weather and climate Workshop**. 

The goal of this workshop is to provide hands-on experience with applying Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) techniques to meteorological and climatological datasets. We cover some applications, from time series forecasting with local weather station data to global climate pattern prediction (ENSO) using deep learning.

The workshop is structured into three main parts:
1.  **AI methods with Weather Station data**: Basics of data handling, visualization, and forecasting using regression and neural networks.
2.  **AI for ENSO prediction**: Advanced deep learning architectures (CNNs) for spatiotemporal climate data.
3.  **Weather Emulators**: State-of-the-art techniques for emulating weather systems.

## Notebooks

### Part 1: AI methods with Weather Station data

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/griverat/ai_wx_clim/blob/main/Notebooks/Part1_Data_Exploration.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>
**Data Exploration**

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/griverat/ai_wx_clim/blob/main/Notebooks/Part1_Weather_Forecasting.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>
**Weather Forecasting**

### Part 2: AI for ENSO prediction

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/griverat/ai_wx_clim/blob/main/Notebooks/Part2_Data_Exploration.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>
**Data Exploration**

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/griverat/ai_wx_clim/blob/main/Notebooks/Part2_ENSO_Prediction.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>
**ENSO Prediction**

### Part 3: Weather emulators

Commit message:

Update workshop title, add HIDSI series mention, and include funding acknowledgment in README.

README.md, after:

# AI for weather and climate Workshop

This repository contains the materials and notebooks for the **AI for weather and climate Workshop**, part of the **HIDSI workshop series**. 

The goal of this workshop is to provide hands-on experience with applying Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) techniques to meteorological and climatological datasets. We cover some applications, from time series forecasting with local weather station data to global climate pattern prediction (ENSO) using deep learning.

The workshop is structured into three main parts:
1.  **AI methods with Weather Station data**: Basics of data handling, visualization, and forecasting using regression and neural networks.
2.  **AI for ENSO prediction**: Advanced deep learning architectures (CNNs) for spatiotemporal climate data.
3.  **Weather Emulators**: State-of-the-art techniques for emulating weather systems.

## Notebooks

### Part 1: AI methods with Weather Station data

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/griverat/ai_wx_clim/blob/main/Notebooks/Part1_Data_Exploration.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>
**Data Exploration**

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/griverat/ai_wx_clim/blob/main/Notebooks/Part1_Weather_Forecasting.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>
**Weather Forecasting**

### Part 2: AI for ENSO prediction

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/griverat/ai_wx_clim/blob/main/Notebooks/Part2_Data_Exploration.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>
**Data Exploration**

<a href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/griverat/ai_wx_clim/blob/main/Notebooks/Part2_ENSO_Prediction.ipynb" target="_blank"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/></a>
**ENSO Prediction**

### Part 3: Weather emulators


---
## Funding

This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation Award No. 2149133, RII Track-1: Change Hawaii: Harnessing the Data Revolution for Island Resilience.
